I am Julius Kambarage Nyerere. Born in 1922 in
Butiama, on the eastern shore of Lake Victoria
in Tanganyika, Current day Tanzania. I am
one of Africa’s most respected figures.
Being the major force behind the
Organization of the African Union.
I am also Tanganyika's first prime minister
and the first president of Tanzania.
I am the son of Chief Nyerere Burito. I finished
my bachelor’s study in Uganda and was selected to
do my master’s in economics at Edinburgh
University. I was the first student from
Tanganyika to study there. After graduating,
I became a teacher near Dar es Salaam.
There, I joined the Tanganyika African
National Union, the nationalist party. In 1954,
I was elected as its president and entered its
Legislative Council. I became prime minister of
the self-governing territory of Tanganyika. After
years of negotiations, we gained our independence
from the British in 1961. I was officially
elected as the nation's first president.
In 1964, the territory unified with Zanzibar
as the United Republic of Tanzania.
In my attempt to build an independent country, I
developed an African national socialist plan to
grow nationally and internationally, called Ujamaa
which means family links in Swahili language.
The main idea of my project and theory was to
recover local traditions of community ways of
working, producing, and relating to the land.
There was a process of nationalization of land
and companies combined with the promotion of
new ways of workers’ organization of labor.
I am also known as one of the main thinkers and
creators of the Organization of African Unity,
together with Kwame Nkrumah. At the
same time, my government’s support
was crucial for the progress of socialist
liberation movements in many countries.
In 1985, after being president for almost 30
years, I stepped down voluntarily. Since then,
I developed an international career as an
African thinker and leader and assisted in
many peace negotiations among African countries.
I died in 1999 dreaming about African unity and
wishing no one would make the color of a man's
skin the criteria for granting him civil rights.